Add Jenkins migration guide (#2107)
buildkite/docs: pages/pipelines/migrate_from_jenkins.md

# Migrate from Jenkins

If you are familiar with [Jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io) and want to migrate to Buildkite, this guide is for you. Buildkite is a modern and flexible continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) platform that provides a powerful and scalable build infrastructure for your applications.

While Jenkins and Buildkite have similar goals as CI/CD platforms, their approach differs. Buildkite uses a hybrid model consisting of the following:

- A software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform for visualization and management of CI/CD pipelines.
- Agents for executing jobs—hosted by you, either on-premise or in the cloud.

Buildkite addresses the pain points of Jenkins' users, namely its security issues (both in its [base code](https://www.cvedetails.com/vulnerability-list/vendor_id-15865/product_id-34004/Jenkins-Jenkins.html) and [plugins](https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/132836/security/jenkins-plugins-zero-day-flaws.html)), time-consuming setup, and speed. This approach makes Buildkite more secure, scalable, and flexible.

Follow the steps in this guide for a smooth migration from Jenkins to Buildkite.

> ## Understand the differences

Reviewer: (**thought, non-blocking**) As I was reading through this section it felt more about "Why Buildkite?" rather than highlighting all the differences. I wonder if instead this section should be called "Buildkite vs. Jenkins"? Maybe it's also totally fine!

Author: Yeah, I see what you mean. I'll keep that in mind but leave it as-is for now. The H2s are all goal/task-focused at the moment, so I think "Understand the differences" tells the story more clearly alongside the others.

Buildkite's hybrid architecture, which combines a centralized SaaS platform with self-hosted build agents, provides a unique approach to security. Buildkite takes care of the security of the SaaS platform, including user authentication, pipeline management, and the web interface. Build agents, which run on your infrastructure, allow you to maintain control over the environment, security, and resources. This separation reduces the operational burden and allows you to focus on securing the environments where your code is built and tested.

Buildkite does not have or need access to your source code. Only the agents you host on your infrastructure need access to clone your repositories. This gives you all the benefits of a SaaS platform without many of the common security concerns.

> Buildkite also doesn't store your secrets. Instead, Buildkite integrates with best-in-class tools like AWS Secrets Manager and Hashicorp Vault to use in your pipelines.

Reviewer: (**suggestion, non-blocking**) Perhaps some links out to AWS Secrets Manager and Hashicorp would be appropriate here. Alternatively a link to https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/secrets might be the way to go?

Author: 👍🏻 I'll look at including links here

Author: Since this section is focused more on learning that doing, I've linked to the third-party sites. Later in the "Translating pipeline definitions" section I link to our page on how to manage secrets in pipelines.

## Share with your team

Buildkite is more fun together, so share the new CI/CD setup with your wider team. Use resources from the [home page](https://buildkite.com/home), [documentation](https://buildkite.com/docs), and [community forum](https://forum.buildkite.community/) to help introduce people to Buildkite and its principles. These will help them adapt to the new CI/CD environment.

Consider also creating internal documentation to outline any information specific to how you're using Buildkite. Include information on your Buildkite agent infrastructure, pipeline configurations, and integration with workflow tools and notifications. Hands-on internal training and workshop sessions have helped people bring the rest of their teams along and explain how Buildkite aligns with your organization's goals.

Some companies assign _Buildkite champions_ who are knowledgeable about Buildkite to each team. These champions help answer questions, provide guidance, and support their colleagues during onboarding.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: I feel like it might be worth re-iterating the point around support being here to help in this section.

e.g. (stolen from the overview page)

> If you need further assistance or have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out to [support](https://buildkite.com/support). We're here to help you make a smooth transition to Buildkite.

Author: Good call, will add

Author: Added:

> If you need further assistance or have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out to [support](https://buildkite.com/support). We're here to help you use Buildkite to build your dream CI/CD workflows.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: I feel like it might be worth re-iterating the point around support being here to help in this section.

e.g. (stolen from the overview page)

> If you need further assistance or have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out to [support](https://buildkite.com/support). We're here to help you make a smooth transition to Buildkite.

Author: (Resolving as looks to be a double up)

# Migrate from Jenkins

> If you are familiar with [Jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io) and want to migrate to Buildkite, this guide is for you. Buildkite is a modern and flexible continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) platform that provides a powerful and scalable build infrastructure for your applications.

Reviewer 2: Curious if we are standardising on "continuous integration and delivery" or "continuous integration and deployment" across our docs?

Author: Good catch. I've been looking at this too long so will have missed some things like this. It should be "deployment."

```suggestion
If you are familiar with [Jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io) and want to migrate to Buildkite, this guide is for you. Buildkite is a modern and flexible continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) platform that provides a powerful and scalable build infrastructure for your applications.
```

While Jenkins and Buildkite have similar goals as CI/CD platforms, their approach differs. Buildkite uses a hybrid model consisting of:

> - A software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform for visualization and management of CI pipelines.

Reviewer 2: Should this be CI/CD pipelines? Or simply, pipelines?

Author: Hmmm good question. I think just "pipelines" is nicer, but we haven't talked about it like that yet, so will go with the longer one here.

```suggestion
- A software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform for visualization and management of CI/CD pipelines.
```

> - Agents that execute jobs on your infrastructure, either on-premise or in the cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Agents for executing jobs, hosted by you, either on-premise or in the cloud.
```

Author: Is the idea to more explicitly call out the "hosted by you" part?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think that "Agents that execute jobs on your infrastructure" could be interpreted to mean that we (Buildkite) host the agents, but those agents run jobs on or against your (customers) infrastructure.

  * **Jenkins:** A combination of _nodes_, _executors_, and _agents_.
  * **Buildkite:** _Agents_.

However, while you're responsible for scaling and operating both components in Jenkins, Buildkite manages the control panel as a SaaS offering (the Buildkite dashboard). This reduces the operational burden on your team, as Buildkite takes care of platform maintenance, updates, and availability. The Buildkite dashboard also handles monitoring tools like logs, user access, and notifications.

The program that executes work is called an _agent_ in Buildkite. An agent is a small, reliable, and cross-platform build runner that connects your infrastructure to Buildkite. It polls Buildkite for work, runs jobs, and reports results. You can install agents on local machines, cloud servers, or other remote machines.

In Jenkins, you manage concurrency by having multiple executors within a single node. In Buildkite, you run multiple agents on a single machine or across multiple machines.

The following diagram shows the split in Buildkite between the hosted platform and the agents running on your infrastructure.

<!-- vale off -->

> <svg alt="Diagram showing agent to agent API communication" viewBox="0 0 730 570"><defs><rect id="agent-comms-svg-i" x="11" y="11" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-j" x="6" y="6" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-k" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-l" width="75" height="48" rx="8"/><path d="M0 8.007C0 3.585 3.575 0 7.996 0h165.008C177.42 0 181 3.588 181 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.575 8.007-7.996 8.007H7.996C3.58 48 0 44.412 0 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-a"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-m" x="0" y="0" width="181" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-a"/></mask><path d="M0 8.007C0 3.585 3.575 0 7.997 0h178.006C190.42 0 194 3.588 194 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.575 8.007-7.997 8.007H7.997C3.58 48 0 44.412 0 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-b"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-n" x="0" y="0" width="194" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-b"/></mask><path d="M0 8.007C0 3.585 3.576 0 7.99 0h119.02c4.412 0 7.99 3.588 7.99 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.576 8.007-7.99 8.007H7.99C3.579 48 0 44.412 0 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-c"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-o" x="0" y="0" width="135" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-c"/></mask><path d="M0 8.007C0 3.585 3.575 0 7.996 0h165.008C177.42 0 181 3.588 181 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.575 8.007-7.996 8.007H7.996C3.58 48 0 44.412 0 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-d"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-p" x="0" y="0" width="181" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-d"/></mask><path d="M0 8.007C0 3.585 3.575 0 7.996 0h165.008C177.42 0 181 3.588 181 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.575 8.007-7.996 8.007H7.996C3.58 48 0 44.412 0 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-e"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-q" x="0" y="0" width="181" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-e"/></mask><path d="M0 8.007C0 3.585 3.575 0 7.997 0h178.006C190.42 0 194 3.588 194 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.575 8.007-7.997 8.007H7.997C3.58 48 0 44.412 0 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-f"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-r" x="0" y="0" width="194" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-f"/></mask><path d="M14 8.007C14 3.585 17.576 0 21.99 0h119.02c4.412 0 7.99 3.588 7.99 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.576 8.007-7.99 8.007H21.99C17.579 48 14 44.412 14 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-g"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-s" x="0" y="0" width="135" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-g"/></mask><path d="M0 8.007C0 3.585 3.585 0 7.998 0h151.004C163.419 0 167 3.588 167 8.007v31.986c0 4.422-3.585 8.007-7.998 8.007H7.998C3.581 48 0 44.412 0 39.993V8.007z" id="agent-comms-svg-h"/><mask id="agent-comms-svg-t" x="0" y="0" width="167" height="48" fill="#fff"><use xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-h"/></mask><rect id="agent-comms-svg-u" width="75" height="48" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-v" x="11" y="11" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-w" x="6" y="6" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-x" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-y" x="11" y="11" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-z" x="6" y="6" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/><rect id="agent-comms-svg-A" width="102" height="65" rx="8"/></defs><g fill="none" fill-rule="evenodd"><path d="M-.5 274.5h732.154" stroke="#DCDCDC" stroke-linecap="square" stroke-dasharray="10"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="18" font-weight="400" fill="#666"><tspan x="618" y="305">On-Premises</tspan></text><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="18" font-weight="400" fill="#666"><tspan x="581" y="32">Hosted Platform</tspan></text><g transform="translate(163 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-i"/><rect stroke="#979797" x="11.5" y="11.5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><g transform="translate(163 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-j"/><rect stroke="#979797" x="6.5" y="6.5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><g transform="translate(163 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-k"/><rect stroke="#979797" x=".5" y=".5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="18" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing="1.125" fill="#2ACE69" transform="translate(163 383)"><tspan x="18.311" y="39">AGENT</tspan></text><g transform="translate(95 312)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-l"/><rect stroke="#979797" x=".5" y=".5" width="74" height="47" rx="8"/></g><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#2ACE69" transform="translate(95 312)"><tspan x="14.157" y="30">AGENT</tspan></text><g transform="translate(56 490)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#m)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-a"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="20.434" y="30">YOUR SOURCE CODE</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(275 492)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#n)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-b"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="15.187" y="30">YOUR DEPLOY SECRETS</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(65 67)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#o)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-c"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="26.595" y="30">WEBHOOKS</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(264 43)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#p)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-d"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="19.539" y="30">SCM INTEGRATIONS</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(39 185)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#q)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-e"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="16.084" y="30">CHAT INTEGRATIONS</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(494 185)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#r)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-f"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="19.984" y="30">REST &amp; GRAPHQL APIs</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(507 67)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#s)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-g"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="26.849" y="30">WEB INTERFACE</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(507 490)"><use stroke="#979797" mask="url(#t)" stroke-width="2" fill="#FFF" stroke-dasharray="3" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-h"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#000"><tspan x="13.482" y="30">INTERNAL SYSTEMS</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(526 312)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-u"/><rect stroke="#979797" x=".5" y=".5" width="74" height="47" rx="8"/></g><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="13" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing=".813" fill="#2ACE69" transform="translate(526 312)"><tspan x="14.157" y="30">AGENT</tspan></text><g transform="translate(298 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-v"/><rect stroke="#979797" x="11.5" y="11.5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><g transform="translate(298 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-w"/><rect stroke="#979797" x="6.5" y="6.5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><g transform="translate(298 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-x"/><rect stroke="#979797" x=".5" y=".5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="18" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing="1.125" fill="#2ACE69" transform="translate(298 383)"><tspan x="18.311" y="39">AGENT</tspan></text><g transform="translate(228 113)"><rect stroke="#979797" x=".5" y=".5" width="249" height="64" rx="8"/><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="18" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing="1.125" fill="#2ACE69"><tspan x="18.98" y="39">BUILDKITE AGENT API</tspan></text></g><g transform="translate(430 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-y"/><rect stroke="#979797" x="11.5" y="11.5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><g transform="translate(430 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-z"/><rect stroke="#979797" x="6.5" y="6.5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><g transform="translate(430 383)"><use fill="#FFF" xlink:href="#agent-comms-svg-A"/><rect stroke="#979797" x=".5" y=".5" width="101" height="64" rx="8"/></g><text font-family="'Maison Neue'" font-size="18" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing="1.125" fill="#2ACE69" transform="translate(430 383)"><tspan x="18.311" y="39">AGENT</tspan></text><path d="M353.5 185.5l166 119M519.5 304.5l-7.03-8.73-3.495 4.876L519.5 304.5zM353.5 185.5l116 183M469.5 368.5l-3.248-10.728-5.068 3.212 8.316 7.516zM353.5 185.5l-8 181M345.5 366.5l3.474-10.657-5.994-.265 2.52 10.922zM353.5 185.5l-131 184M222.5 369.5l8.708-7.058-4.888-3.48-3.82 10.538zM353.5 185.5l-173 118M180.5 303.5l10.613-3.607-3.381-4.957-7.232 8.564z" stroke="#B4B4B4" fill="#B4B4B4" stroke-linecap="square"/></g></svg>

Author: Sounds good. I'm going to change "Hosted Platform" to "SaaS platform" to better tie in with the text, too.

- Careful configuration.
- Plugin management.
- Regular updates to address security vulnerabilities.

You must consider vulnerabilities in both the [base code](https://www.cvedetails.com/vulnerability-list/vendor_id-15865/product_id-34004/Jenkins-Jenkins.html) and [plugins](https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/132836/security/jenkins-plugins-zero-day-flaws.html). Additionally, since Jenkins is a self-hosted solution, you are responsible for securing the underlying infrastructure, network, and storage. Some updates require you to take Jenkins offline to perform, leaving your team without access to CI/CD during that period.

Buildkite's hybrid architecture, which combines a centralized SaaS platform with self-hosted build agents, provides a unique approach to security. Buildkite takes care of the security of the SaaS platform, including user authentication, pipeline management, and the web interface. Build agents, which run on your infrastructure, allow you to maintain control over the environment, security, and resources. This separation reduces the operational burden and allows you to focus on securing the environments where your code is built and tested.

> Secret management is more straightforward in Buildkite with environment hooks and native support for third-party tools like AWS Secrets Manager and Hashicorp Vault.

Author: Ahhh yip, I had this confused. Updating to:

> Buildkite also doesn't store your secrets. Instead, Buildkite integrates with best-in-class tools like AWS Secrets Manager and Hashicorp Vault to use in your pipelines.

> 

Author: Yip! Adding:

> Buildkite does not have or need access to your source code. Only the agents you host on your infrastructure need access to clone your repositories. This gives you all the benefits of a SaaS platform without many of the common security concerns.

Both Jenkins and Buildkite support multiple authentication providers and offer granular access control. However, Buildkite's SaaS platform provides a more centralized and streamlined approach to user management, making it easier to enforce security policies and manage user access across your organization.

### Pipeline configuration

When migrating your CI/CD pipelines from Jenkins to Buildkite, it's important to understand the differences in pipeline configuration.

Like Jenkins, Buildkite lets you create pipeline definitions in the web interface or a file checked into the repository. Most people use the latter to include their pipeline definitions next to the code, managed in source control. The equivalent of a `Jenkinsfile` is a `pipeline.yml`.

> Rather than a full programming language like the Groovy-based syntax in Jenkins, Buildkite uses a YAML-based syntax. The YAML definitions are simpler, more human-readable, and easier to understand.

Author: Nice! Committing a version that combines both suggestions:

```suggestion
Rather than the Groovy-based syntax in Jenkins, Buildkite uses a YAML-based syntax. The YAML definitions are simpler, more human-readable, and easier to understand. And you can even have code generate those pipelines on the fly if you need the power and flexibility of [dynamic pipelines](/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines).
```

> In Jenkins, the core description of work is a job. Jobs contain stages with steps and can trigger other jobs. You use a job to upload a `Jenkinsfile` from a repository. Installing the Pipeline plugin lets you describe a workflow of jobs as a pipeline. Buildkite uses similar terms in different ways. _Pipelines_ are the core description of work. Pipelines contain different types of _steps_ for different tasks:

Author: 🤔 I think linking to this page is a good idea, but it might be more suitable in the section about translating pipeline definitions. This is just exposing the idea of steps and the different types. I'll come back to this.

> In Jenkins, the core description of work is a job. Jobs contain stages with steps and can trigger other jobs. You use a job to upload a `Jenkinsfile` from a repository. Installing the Pipeline plugin lets you describe a workflow of jobs as a pipeline. Buildkite uses similar terms in different ways. _Pipelines_ are the core description of work. Pipelines contain different types of _steps_ for different tasks:

Author: 👍🏻 I decided to add the link as suggested

- **Command step:** Runs one or more shell commands on one or more agents.
- **Wait step:** Pauses a build until all previous jobs have completed.
- **Block step:** Pauses a build until unblocked.
- **Input step:** Collects information from a user.
- **Trigger step:** Creates a build on another pipeline.
- **Group step:** Displays a group of sub-steps as one parent step.

> Triggering a pipeline creates a _build_, and any command steps are dispatched as _jobs_ to run on agents. You upload the `pipeline.yml` file from a repository using a command on the agent.

Author: Thanks, I'll commit a slight tweak to the style but it should convey the same thing:

```suggestion
Triggering a pipeline creates a _build_, and any command steps are dispatched as _jobs_ to run on agents. A common practice is to define a pipeline with a single step that uploads the `pipeline.yml` file in the code repository. The `pipeline.yml` contains the full pipeline definition and can be generated dynamically.
```

You'll need to consider the following:

- **Infrastructure type:** Agents can run on various infrastructure types, including on-premises, cloud (AWS, GCP, Azure), or container platforms (Docker, Kubernetes). Based on your analysis of the existing Jenkins nodes, choose the infrastructure type that best suits your organization's needs and constraints.
- **Resource usage:** Agent infrastructure is similar to the requirements for nodes in Jenkins, without operating the controller. Evaluate your Jenkins nodes' resource usage (CPU, memory, and disk space) to determine the requirements for your Buildkite agent infrastructure.
- **Platform dependencies:** To run your pipelines, you'll need to ensure the agents have the necessary dependencies, such as programming languages, build tools, and libraries. Take note of the operating systems, libraries, tools, and dependencies installed on your Jenkins nodes. This information will help you configure your Buildkite agents.

> - **Network configurations:** Review the network configurations of your Jenkins nodes, including firewalls, proxy settings, and network access to external resources. These configurations will guide you in setting up the network environment for your Buildkite agents.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could also add this?
```suggestion
- **Network configurations:** Review the network configurations of your Jenkins nodes, including firewalls, proxy settings, and network access to external resources. These configurations will guide you in setting up the network environment for your Buildkite agents. The Buildkite agent works by polling Buildkite's agent API over HTTPS.  There is no need to forward ports or provide incoming firewall access.
```

- **Agent scaling:** Evaluate the number of concurrent builds and the build queue length in your Jenkins nodes to estimate the number of Buildkite agents needed. Keep in mind that you can scale Buildkite agents independently, allowing you to optimize resource usage and reduce build times.

> - **Build isolation and security:** Consider using separate agents for different projects or environments to ensure build isolation and security. You can use agent tags and clusters to target specific agents for specific pipeline steps, allowing for fine-grained control over agent allocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Build isolation and security:** Consider using separate agents for different projects or environments to ensure build isolation and security. You can use [agent tags](/docs/agent/v3/cli-start#setting-tags) and [clusters](/docs/agent/clusters) to target specific agents for specific pipeline steps, allowing for fine-grained control over agent allocation.
```

## Translate pipeline definitions

A pipeline is a container for modeling and defining workflows. While that's true for both Buildkite and Jenkins, they look quite different. Both can read a configuration file checked into a repository to define the workflow. In Jenkins, the `Jenkinsfile`. In Buildkite, the `pipeline.yml`. Where the `Jenkinsfile` uses a Groovy-based syntax and strong hierarchy, `pipelines.yml` uses YAML and a flat structure for better readability.

### Audit your pipelines

Before you start moving pipelines, we recommend taking inventory of your existing pipelines, plugins, and integrations. Determine which parts of your Jenkins setup are essential and which can be replaced or removed. This will help you decide what needs to be migrated to Buildkite.

### Translate a pipeline

Since the configuration files are quite different, creating an automated tool to translate between them is difficult. Instead, we recommend assessing the goal of a pipeline and investing the time to see how to achieve the same thing the Buildkite way. This results in clearer pipelines with better performance.

> Some Buildkite features you might want to use include [dynamic pipelines](/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines), [lifecycle hooks](/docs/agent/v3/hooks), [conditionals](/docs/pipelines/conditionals), [artifacts](/docs/pipelines/artifacts), and [build matrices](/docs/pipelines/build-matrix).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some Buildkite features you might want to use include [dynamic pipelines](/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines), [lifecycle hooks](/docs/agent/v3/hooks), [conditionals](/docs/pipelines/conditionals), [artifacts](/docs/pipelines/artifacts), [build matrices](/docs/pipelines/build-matrix), and [annotations](/docs/agent/v3/cli-annotate).
```

A simple pipeline in Buildkite might look like the following:

```yaml
steps:
- label: "Build"
  command: "build.sh"
  key: "build"

- label: "Test"
  command: "test.sh"
  key: "test"
  depends_on: "build"

- label: "Deploy"
  command: "deploy.sh"

>   depends_on: "build"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  depends_on: "test"
```

```

To translate a pipeline:

1. Identify the goal of the pipeline.
1. Look for an [example pipeline](/docs/pipelines/example-pipelines) closest to that goal.
1. Follow [Defining steps](/docs/pipelines/defining-steps) and surrounding documentation to learn how to customize the pipeline definition to meet your needs, including:
   * Targeting a specific agent or queue.
   * Replacing any Jenkins plugins and integrations with native integrations, existing Buildkite plugins, custom plugins, or custom scripts.

> 1. Migrate any environment variables, secrets, or credentials used in the pipeline. Buildkite allows you to manage environment variables and secrets on different levels, such as organization, pipeline, and step levels. Securely store your sensitive data using Buildkite's secret management or a third-party secret management tool.

Reviewer 2: This needs a re-write, Buildkite doesn't have secret management built in.

Author: 👍🏻 Addressed
